== Mongoid Taggable With Context

A tagging plugin for Mongoid that allows for custom tagging along dynamic contexts. This plugin was originally based on Mongoid Taggable by Wilker Lúcio and Ches Martin. It has evolved substantially since that point, but all credit goes to them for the initial tagging functionality.

For instance, in a social network, a user might have tags that are called skills, interests, sports, and more. There is no real way to differentiate between tags and so an implementation of this type is not possible with Mongoid Taggable.

Another example, aggregation such as counting tag occurrences was achieved by map-reduce with Mongoid Taggable. It was ok for small amount of tags, but when the amount of tags and documents grow, the original Mongoid Taggable won't be able to scale to real-time statistics demand.

Enter Mongoid Taggable With Context. Rather than tying functionality to a specific keyword (namely "tags"), Mongoid Taggable With Context allows you to specify an arbitrary number of tag "contexts" that can be used locally or in combination in the same way Mongoid Taggable was used.

Mongoid Taggable With Context implements tag aggregation without map-reduce, instead it quickly adjusts the aggregation collection whenever tags are inserted or removed with $inc operator. So performance won't be impacted as the number of tags and documents grow.

== Installation

You can simply install from rubygems:

  gem install mongoid_taggable_with_context

or in Gemfile:

  gem 'mongoid_taggable_with_context'

== Basic Usage

To make a document taggable you need to include Mongoid::TaggableOnContext into your document and call the *taggable* macro with optional arguments:

  class Post
    include Mongoid::Document
    include Mongoid::TaggableWithContext

    field :title
    field :content

    # default context is 'tags'.
    # This creates #tags, #tags=, #tags_array, #tags_array= instance methods
    # separator is " " by default
    # #tags method returns space separated string
    # #tags= methods accepts space separated string
    # #tags_array method returns an array of tags
    # #tags_array= method accepts an array of tags
    # #tags and #tags_array are automatically synched.
    taggable
    
    # tagging for 'interests' context.
    # This creates #interests, #interests=, #interests_array, #interests_array= instance methods
    taggable :interests
    
    # tagging for 'skills' context.
    # This creates #skills, #skills=, #skills_array, #skills_array= instance methods
    # changing tag separator to "," (Default is " ") 
    taggable :skills, :separator => ','
  end

Then in your form, for example:

  <% form_for @post do |f| %>
    <p>
      <%= f.label :title %><br />
      <%= f.text_field :title %>
    </p>
    <p>
      <%= f.label :content %><br />
      <%= f.text_area :content %>
    </p>
    <p>
      <%= f.label :tags %><br />
      <%= text_field_tag 'post[tags]' %>
    </p>
    <p>
      <%= f.label :interests %><br />
      <%= text_field_tag 'post[interests]' %>
    </p>
    <p>
      <%= f.label :skills %><br />
      <%= text_field_tag 'post[skills]' %>
    </p>
    <p>
      <button type="submit">Send</button>
    </p>
  <% end %>


== Tag Aggregation with Counts

This lib can automatically create aggregate collections of contexts and their counts for you. Each aggregate collection is scoped to the document collection type and context.

  Post.create!(:tags => "food,ant,bee")
  Post.create!(:tags => "juice,food,bee,zip")
  Post.create!(:tags => "honey,strip,food")

  Post.tags # will retrieve ["ant", "bee", "food", "honey", "juice", "strip", "zip"]
  Post.tags_with_weight # will retrieve:
  # [
  #   ['ant', 1],
  #   ['bee', 2],
  #   ['food', 3],
  #   ['honey', 1],
  #   ['juice', 1],
  #   ['strip', 1],
  #   ['zip', 1]
  # ]

== Changing default separator

To change the default separator you may pass a *separator* argument to the macro:

  class Post
    include Mongoid::Document
    include Mongoid::Taggable

    field :title
    field :content

    taggable :separator => ','    # tags will be delineated by comma instead of space
  end

== Development and Testing

Mongoid Taggable With Context uses Bundler for easy installation of development dependent gems.
To get all dependent gems for development, while inside mongoid_taggable_with_context directory:

  bundle install


Mongoid Taggable With Context uses RSpec for its test coverage.
Inside mongoid_taggable_with_context directory, you can run the specs with:

  rake spec

To see the test coverage, you need to be on ruby 1.8.7 (since latest rcov doesn't work 1.9)
and run the following command:

  rake rcov
  
== Next Up

* More documentation.
* Separate Aggregation into it's own module. Include module to enable aggregation.